hey everyone in this video tutorial i'm
going to give you a breakdown of my
kinetic typography pack for after
effects
we're going to take a deep dive into
this project and take a closer look at
some of the techniques i use to create
these popular and trendy text effects
that you see around today
my goal is that you'll be able to pick
up some of the tips and tricks from
watching this video
and apply what you learn in your own
designs okay
so uh let's get into it okay so what
this video is going to be is a breakdown
of how each comp works so if you
don't want to download the project uh
the project file for this
you can actually watch this video and
hopefully there's enough in here too
for you to figure out how to do it or
you can you know
save yourself hours and just buy the
project and help me out at the same time
so i'm hoping i can teach you some
effects here anyway
let's start with this effect here and
we've got this saying so i made these
projects during the first part of
lockdown so back in
march and april so all the phrases that
were going on there were
to do with lockdown at the time whatever
country you were in i'm sure
locked down what's happening but
yeah let's forget about that and let's
look at how this works i'm just gonna
open up this comp and we've got this
split up into
nine different duplications of the same
uh comp here everything's organized
uh so if i were to reveal this comp in
this project
we've got the source files and each
source file splits up into
the corresponding project or the design
so we've got english range times which
is type number two
and you can edit the actual text here
and inside the text we've got a comp and
then inside there we've got another
pre-call
so let's have a look how this works
we've got this text layer here that says
in these it just animates up
and then off again and that's on using
text animators
we've just got a simple um
offset here in fact we don't need that
one or that one
it's just got a ramp that goes up and
down that's how you get that effect
so you select add a text layer
add the effector change the position
change the shape to rumble
and then animate the offset and that's
how you get this nice little
uh animation here so it animates in and
out
and it's the same thing for the other
ones it's just got different types of
color and type or letter styling rather
so it's the same thing every time you
don't need that one
anyways in and off so when you merge
them all together
i'm just pressing tab here by the way
you get this nice cascading effect
so it's just about a question about
timing so if i go into here
into here this is where they're all
offset
so all i did is just line them up like
this
and go yep that looks right keep going
for a few seconds
so that one you know that could probably
come on one or two frames earlier
again with this one as well probably
there
so it looks like that
and we go back out and then this was
what that looks like
so with that little frame change you can
actually see the designs change and
animation style
okay the next one i've called is not
original i called this spot original
because i saw this style everywhere
okay so let's have a look what's going
inside here
we have just one line of text
no animation here whatsoever so let's
just
edit this right now to i don't know
lock down
and we've got this um
text layer here sorry shape layer here
set to silhouette alpha
and there is a reason why we have that
because if we
go out we're not using
masks here so if i just select
it's just a position so if i go into it
again turn off
that layer go back you'll see it's all
you can see it's all overlapping so
clever thing is if you use
a shape layer and that acts as like a
mask
without using a mask so all i'm doing
here
is let's just hide these so we can see
what we need this will just
show things above it um
we're just basically moving the position
and just offsetting it each time
so you move that one there that's
probably like ninety percent eighty
percent
seventy percent sure 50 40 and you just
show a little by little
and then you offset the timings here
and the same again here just in reverse
and then
you get this effect here
okay let's move on to the next one
so you see these renders quite quickly i
actually designed these originally on
a 2014 macbook right now i'm using a
power pc
but these are really easy to edit so
here's one design
i think it's different to the one in the
video because i was just tweaking with
it before this video started so let's
go and change this to how i wanted it
okay so
this is how it looks and i really like
this effect
so let's do a breakdown of how we made
it so we've got the word
where that comes up like this
and goes down so it's just animates up
and down
and let's just have a look at our source
files so let's play your mask
and switch where oh
so it's the same thing up and down
[Music]
that's peeking through
we kind of want to nudge that completely
off
so now we get this effect
but how is this effect actually made
so the first frame you can see it starts
here that's because this to create the
perfect loop
you just need to start it a little bit
further ahead because the last frame
ends here so the first frame
and last frames here if i roll it on you
see it still animates but
this is your in and out point from here
to here and that's why it's cut there
so technically we should start here
so this is your actual endpoint here
so all we're doing
is actually using a adjustment layer
with time displacement so without that
this is what it looks like
so it's still upset
and we offset the layers you can see to
give it
it's it's not um all even
it's got this nice little ease here
so it starts off quick and ends lower
and then what we do we use a
pre-made ramp so we've got one that goes
like this we've got a gradient wrap and
posterize effect on it
now we've got another one which has
radiant ram
color armor with a
cycle repetition set to 11
and again a posterize which is set to 10
and we've got an adjustment layer with a
time displacement
effect which is set to just minus 0.4
and we're looking at the second
adjustment layer which is the one that
is the colorama
and that's what gives it this stepped
effect here because if we switch it to
a different one
it gives an effect like that when you
turn it off completely
you know it's a little smoother so you
basically got three in one
with that but you can edit the
ramp yourself so if i change this to
20 maybe change the cycle partitions to
20 as well and now look at it
and okay we want to make sure it's using
the right one
now we've created an effect there
really quickly and i like how it was
before
[Music]
i'm gonna mess around a bit more if i
swap the gradient
yeah gives it changes it moves it from
right to left rather than left to right
and you can see how quickly
it responds
all right next work from home cube
pretty simple one here
i've just got a let's hide that i've got
a 3d some text set in 3d space there's
some
3d solids and all i'm doing is parenting
the text to a null and i'm animating the
null every
um project every company you can edit
yourself okay
so it's a pretty straightforward one i
think
okay the next one's called wash your
hands let's have a look how this one's
made
we've just got some text here you can
edit it to whatever you want
so i'll just change the text there for
this one you just
don't waste
water copy and we just place space base
base plate space
i'm not hitting return i'm just pasting
paste and place doing
and then we press tab to go back to the
pre comp and
all we've got here is a cc mercury
and with some levels to adjust and a
black solid
there are the settings for cc mercury so
i'm not going to really go through them
but you can just copy them and use them
on your own
oh there you go so these are the ones
i've changed from default
and you know if you want you can change
the size yourself here
smaller droplets or bigger droplets it's
really quite easy
all right okay let's look at the next
one it's called
lift me which is number seven we just
have to go into edit text here
this one's quite straightforward again
this is using an echo effect so we've
got two layers here
one is the solid white and one is the
white stroke
so let's turn off one let's start with
the solid white
and for here we've got a text animator
again
but two applied
so we turn off one yeah so one lifts it
up and one lifts it down
keyframed
so it just goes up but it goes down
again using the ramp effect from before
these are set to 50
here so we just put the position to
1050 and then the down position is also
1050.
and then we have the same
four here the duplicate but this one's
got the echo effect that's applied so we
don't have it applied
this is what it looks like and i've got
one i say turn off a pro mode it just
has
just double the number of echoes so
we're echoing the echo
so if you got a slower machine maybe
don't try this but
it shouldn't take too long yeah nice
little effect there
next one is stay at home tower so this
one is quite a
nice looking one and here here's how
it's built
it's quite a lot of pre-comps so comp
swimming comps
and we're using some clever techniques
here
so let's go into it again
so okay so if i view this from the top
view you'll see what's going on here
we've got um
we've basically made a 3d scene and it's
basically a square so you can see it
there
so if i were to and then we've got a
roof
and a floor so you can edit the text
again here to whatever you want
like with every single one but if i were
to
add a null object in the middle
and then parent it to the null object
and then
make that knowledge of 3d and rotate it
you can see how it works so we basically
just got 3d
um comp here let's undo that
delete that move one
so what i've done is duplicated the comp
15 or 10 times here and then i've offset
them
in the y-axis
and what's clever is each one is stacked
up
one after the other so if you use the
collapse transformation so let's
let me just
turn up so you just hide select this one
and turn this off
you'll see you just get the flat uh
2d layer or 2d looking layer but if we
turn collapse transformation it then
brings in the 3d values so if we have a
look at the keyframes
there we go
we can see we get that nice little
effect so it's all animated
okay so here's another one new normal
you may think it's similar to the
washing hands one but it's actually
different
[Music]
so again once again you've got your text
here and i've just got one layer here
no it's not duplicated every time
we're actually using cc repertoire to
create the uh
[Music]
repetition really quickly just saves on
the
performance so we've got cc bobbilize
applied
the same turbulent displace effect
and then you need to have the cutout
area as well inverted so it looks like
the bubbles are going over the text
okay so this one you may look at it and
you may think is it cinema 4d
is this after effects yep this one's 100
after effects so let's have a look how
this one is made
you can access the text you want to edit
directly here
but let's have a look how we made it
it's a similar process to
the stay at home tower one which is
number eight
so this time we're animating the box
here
as a comp same principle applies
separate elements
we've got them parented to a null
rotating on the
x-axis and i've added some
expressions to give you some bounce here
so then the next job is just to
duplicate it four times
and then offset it and then that's how
you get this effect
okay you've probably seen this style
everywhere online uh
that's why it's called the original
because it's the last thing that i'm not
doing here
pretty straightforward again we've got
one comp here
with some text we're using
cc reptile to repeat it
we then apply a cc cylinder to it
here are the settings we then add a time
expression to the right rotation
so we get like that let me get that
change the position
to where you want it change the radius
here make it bigger smaller
and stick with 100
yeah and that's it and there's a few
tweaks made to the
lighting just to give it that nice look
yeah but really straightforward that one
so recap again text represent
and then add a cc cylinder to it so this
is a cool effect
let's have a look how this one's made
okay so basically for this one we've got
a duplication of the text layer
you'll see the top one is in yellow
and the rest are in red it's just so we
can identify what's going on here
so the anchor point set to the left side
here
for all of these and
all that's happening is you just scale
it
from 100 to zero so if i just
hide one and that makes it
invisible and while that's happening
you scale up one from zero
to 100 but the anchor point is on the
right
and if you time it it looks like it's
pushing it across
so hopefully we should be able to change
this text without too much problem but
let's show you how to change it
so this one's a little bit trickier to
change but let's try it anyway
you kind of want something that's that
will fit in one line
so you just need to change the text in
one layer and it should update
after effects it doesn't update um
text the text style or the text size or
kerning so we just need to
do this ourselves manually so
i'm gonna have to make that text a bit
smaller we'll choose something
that fits
uh let's try this one
artifacts
[Music]
select them all
that's about right remember this will
work only if the text
is the same kind of size so
all i've got here is the comp uh
animating one of me then i reverse it to
give it the
ping-pong effect
okay let's have a look at the next one
okay going to edit your text here and
what we've got is
quite simple it's powered by a time
displacement adjustment name
we've got text that animates one way two
[Music]
so we've got text that animates in from
left to right
quite simple
but we've got a mat here
with a gradient wrap and a posterize
layer
and then we've got a time displacement
that uses that looks at the
gradient map to drive the displacement
so how this works is the black lines
the dark oh you don't need to learn how
it works
so that's how we get this little slit
scan effect so if we increase the
levels of posterization to 150
you get smaller lines and if you change
it to say
three well those knives are too big so
let's charge
five yeah it almost
does it line by nine so let's try
75 that looks neat
so you get this cool effect here and you
can adjust the timings
so let's move that a little bit
earlier here
okay let's have a look at this one
there's quite a few different elements
going on here
we've got the water effect and then
we've got the
3d kind of animated
animated abstract thing happening in the
background so
two steps here so let's break this down
we've got
a comp we've got small blobs and we've
got big blobs
so let's go into here and have a look at
the background first
um first things it's basically
a practical noise it's quite a few
different effects applied to it so we
get a fractal noise
and here are the settings for the
fractal noise
you can pause that and copy that over
and then after that i apply a
levels and that's to get the
can i apply levels and that's to make it
two colors only
and then we apply a set map and
we're using itself so that basically
cuts it out
basically removes the black
and then we fill with some color and
then add a better bevel after
and a bit of drop shadow and then we do
the same for the layer above
so you can see it animates and this is a
duplicate of
the layer below it so each uh so what
we're looking at here is the brightness
of each layer it's just shifted slightly
and that creates
the size difference
so again here so the brightness is a
little bit less
and again so that's how we create that
and then next is just you just add wash
your hands on here
and i've added a
effects here to create a text box around
it i
can show you how you do that in one of
my other tutorials
so from that i add a cc glass
effect and then
the duplicate add another one with a mr
mercury
plus a cc glass
and then i create the same thing again
about smaller blobs
and what's really cool it distorts
because the glass effect that distorts
what's the text that's coming through
so it's a really nice effect there's if
i were to turn it off here
and then that see that's where the
distortion is coming from so it's cc
glass twice
wonderful the small gloves one for the
big gloves and then there you go
okay let's have a look at the next one
we've got trendy echo
a nice effect here got to where trendy
that comes in
with an echo and then stays on
let's have a look how that's made we've
got
it's quite a simple one really um
adjustment there is doing all the work
here but the word echo
that animates in from top to bottom
and then goes past each other
and the moment they do to a trendy just
cuts on
and then we've got a adjustment layer
with echo
and that's set to composite and final
because if it was set to the default ad
it will look like that so we do
composite
in front i said composite the final
before
like an age yet and then we'll just
change the times
just what's shown here if you want to
change it so it fades you can
so knock it back a little and that
creates a different effect
but i like it one
okay we've got another echo here okay so
for this echo we've got
two layers here first one
and it makes like this so this is
powered by
a clever little expression here that's
just added to the position and it's
using a sine so you get a perfect sine
wave
up and down and then we're using offset
to
give it the mirror effect so this is
just going up and down
and if we have an offset
it basically makes it look like it's
moving left and right
because it's going up and down so let me
just turn off the position
so the good thing about offset it
repeats so as the
layer moves off the screen it repeats
so when you combine the two you get this
effect here
and then this is basically the same for
the layer below it
but we have set it to composite in front
change the solid to fill to red
and the stroke to white and that's what
creates that effect
so you can have the black uh the ripples
to be red
and the solid color is a yellow
will change from here so i can i can
have it as black
i think i've got some type of
layer style on there to give it a little
gradient
so yeah there's a little layer all now
turn that off
and uh maybe your white might look nicer
there you go so it's a nice little
effect there probably go over
just to make it more hit there you go
so it's a nice little effect there okay
let's have a look at
type 25 which is called jumpy type
go into the edit text here and it's made
up
of four separate text layers
so we've got top text and then another
top text
so we've got fill a black fill and a
white fill
and on what creates the uh ripple effect
is the echo effect here similar to
type zero zero seven lift me
that one there same principle is just
the animation difference so where this
one just goes
up then down this one goes
more like a spring so up and down up and
down
so it's basically the same thing as lift
me
but the ramp uh the text animation
effect is just offset so it goes up and
then down while the
first one's going up what that means is
if i just shift it that way
and just use it with this
it goes up and down
but if i undo that
he goes up and then down more like a
spring
so yeah quite simple one there so this
is a cool way to use after effects 3d
type to create a nice little
uh design here i haven't actually seen
this method used
a lot before we've actually got
interactive shadows
and nice animation here so let's show
you how i've made this
okay so how this works is we've got a
text layer which where the text goes let
me just duplicate this so i don't lose
it
turn this off we've got a layer here
simple text and then when i make it per
character 3d
it looks like this i then rotate it
i then change the position and the
rotation to
match this and then i
just have to animate the y rotation
of the text and that's how you get it to
look like that
okay let's have a look at another one
into the dark so the first thing
you can go in here and you can change
the
text color let's go with a blue
and then there's a little bit of a
shadow here that i've added
so what's going on here we've got text
that
scales up with a offset this is a simple
scale
so it scales higher and higher and
higher then we've got this rotation
but with an offset but you can see
there's only keyframes applied to
the scale not to the rotation to the
rotation
it's looking at the layer above it from
the bottom up so from here it looks like
the layer here and layer here and there
and let's look at looking at what's
called leader so the keyframes are on
leader whatever happens here
then happens to the layers below on a
delay
which is set here so if i set this to 1
the delay will be a lot quicker
and then if i change the animation speed
so
if i make it so it rotates this way
you'll see that all the other ones
rotate
as well so it's not actually parented
it's using a
expression here it's basically
a value at time uh so we define
um the delay frames here
so that's how many uh frames or
milliseconds i'm not sure how it works
the delay takes
so we rotate from zero to here
so let's change that
[Music]
hold uh
so the delay equals frames to time
which is the value that we set here
this comp.layout so index minus is
looking at the layer underneath
it looking at the rotation the value at
time minus delay
which then gives us the effect so
animates in
boom boom boom boom
so really nice effect there so that's
just the rotation the scale
is all keyframed on each one but you can
use the scale
[Music]
as a layer above but i just wanted a
little bit more control for the scale
so i just used it on rotation instead
so let's have a look at this one it
looks quite complicated but
it's actually quite simple to do and it
uses a clever adjustment layer
powered by a displacement map to create
this effect
if i just turn on this three layers here
keep
your distance so this is what's
happening so we've got the word keeping
your animating on
it's masked so if i just show you the
mask so we've got a mask here and a mask
here
and we're using the text animator ramp
effect to
animate on the text so we add a
position value here and then use the
ramp shape to animate it on
by animating the offset so what we're
doing
comes out like this then we
so i'm just pressing u to reveal the
keyframes
and then we animate the position so ramp
up position
don't know where distance comes on
and it's a similar principle here
but how does it how do we create that
split effect well that's powered by
a adjustment layer
so now i'm showing all the layers here
and
that's looking at a ramp here which
she's got posterize
so we use that as the map layer
displacement layer
and we're animating the displacement
value
the vertical displacement
but that basically splits it up
and it creates this nice cascading
effect
and then we animate it down again and
that's it
so it's really simple it's two things
you've got a displacement map that we've
used quite a lot
and it displaced a displacement map
so it's displacement matte and
displacement map
all right um i think that's the end of
the video i hope you've
managed to learn a couple of tips and
tricks from this video
that you can apply in your designs as i
mentioned you can download this after
effects project
and the link is in the description i'll
leave a discount code
in the description so we can get it a
little cheaper you've got 30 different
projects all organized nicely and really
easy to edit
yeah once again thanks for watching my
plan is to
do a couple of these from scratch so if
you don't want to download the project
then you know i could do a couple from
scratch just so you can figure out to do
yourself because i know it is quite
complicated
and i know some of you like a
step-by-step tutorial
on each one so i'll try and get to that
if i can but in the meantime
yeah thanks for watching and i'll see
you later bye